Add blog post about ScienceCore Scipy tutorial (#277)
2i2c-org/2i2c-brochure: content/blog/2024/climaterisk-scipy-tutorial/index.md

---
title: Determining Climate Risks with NASA Earthdata Cloud at Scipy 2024 
date: "2024-07-08"
banner:
  image: "featured.png"
authors: ["Jenny Wong"]
tags: [geoscience, education]
categories: [impact]
featured: false
draft: false
---

> *Determining Climate Risks with NASA Earthdata Cloud* is [ScienceCore](https://www.nasa.gov/centers-and-facilities/marshall/nasa-boosts-open-science-through-innovative-training/) curriculum module that comprises part of NASA's [Open Science](https://science.nasa.gov/open-science-overview) and [Transform to Open Science (TOPS)](https://nasa.github.io/Transform-to-Open-Science/) initiatives. The aim of this module is to deliver a hands-on experience with "data-proximate computing" in the cloud with [NASA Earthdata](https://www.earthdata.nasa.gov/) products with content co-developed with MetaDocencia.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Determining Climate Risks with NASA Earthdata Cloud* is a [ScienceCore](https://www.nasa.gov/centers-and-facilities/marshall/nasa-boosts-open-science-through-innovative-training/) curriculum module that comprises part of NASA's [Open Science](https://science.nasa.gov/open-science-overview) and [Transform to Open Science (TOPS)](https://nasa.github.io/Transform-to-Open-Science/) initiatives.
The aim of this module is to deliver a hands-on experience with "data-proximate computing" in the cloud with [NASA Earthdata](https://www.earthdata.nasa.gov/) products with content co-developed with [MetaDocencia](https://www.metadocencia.org/).
```

> This module was delivered as a [SciPy tutorial](https://cfp.scipy.org/2024/talk/3DVH7S/) at this year's conference. 2i2c have been working closely with the organizers to provide the hub infrastructure for the tutorial, including enabling a shared password for easy authentication (see our [Openscapes post](/blog/2024/openscapes-sbg-workshop/index) for more about this feature) and operating a [small binder service](/blog/2024/nasa-ephemeral-hubs/index) for participants to view content after the event (you can take a look at the tutorial on the [NASA ephemeral hub](https://binder.opensci.2i2c.cloud/v2/gh/ScienceCore/scipy-2024-climaterisk/HEAD?labpath=00_Introduction_Setup%2F01_Initial_Setup.ipynb)!).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module was delivered as a [SciPy tutorial](https://cfp.scipy.org/2024/talk/3DVH7S/) at this year's conference.
2i2c has worked closely with the organizers to provide hub infrastructure for the tutorial, including enabling a shared password for easy authentication (see our [Openscapes post](/blog/2024/openscapes-sbg-workshop/index) for more about this feature) and operating a [small binder service](/blog/2024/nasa-ephemeral-hubs/index) for participants to view content after the event.

You can take a look at the tutorial on the [NASA ephemeral hub](https://binder.opensci.2i2c.cloud/v2/gh/ScienceCore/scipy-2024-climaterisk/HEAD?labpath=00_Introduction_Setup%2F01_Initial_Setup.ipynb)!
```

Author: ```suggestion
This module was delivered as a [SciPy tutorial](https://cfp.scipy.org/2024/talk/3DVH7S/) at this year's conference. 2i2c have been working closely with the organizers to provide the hub infrastructure for the tutorial, including enabling a shared password for easy authentication (see our [Openscapes post](/blog/2024/openscapes-sbg-workshop/index) for more about this feature) and operating a small binder service for participants to view content after the event.

You can take a look at the tutorial on the [NASA ephemeral hub](https://binder.opensci.2i2c.cloud/v2/gh/ScienceCore/scipy-2024-climaterisk/HEAD?labpath=00_Introduction_Setup%2F01_Initial_Setup.ipynb)!).
```

> The event was well-attended, with 40 learners taking part. Special thanks go to the organizers Dhavide Aruliah, Karthik Venkataramani and Patricia A. Loto for leading the tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The event was well-attended, with 40 learners taking part. Special thanks go to the organizers [Dhavide Aruliah](https://github.com/dhavide), [Karthik Venkataramani](https://www.linkedin.com/in/karthikvenkataramani/) and [Patricia A. Loto](https://github.com/patriloto) for leading the tutorial.
```

Reviewer: I try to link to individuals wherever possible in case this helps signal-boost their profile

## Acknowledgements

- NASA F.14 Transform to Open Science Training award NNH23ZDA001N-TOPST
- [MetaDocencia](https://www.metadocencia.org/en/proyecto/nasa-2i2c/)

> - Dhavide Aruliah
> - Karthik Venkataramani
> - Patricia A. Loto

Author: ```suggestion
- [Dhavide Aruliah](https://github.com/dhavide)
- [Karthik Venkataramani](https://www.linkedin.com/in/karthikvenkataramani/)
- [Patricia A. Loto](https://github.com/patriloto)
```
